First thing I wanna talk about
when we talk about the differencs
of different languages in JavaScript and
then the runtime Node.
One thing to keep in mind is
something called a non-blocking I/O.
So if you don't know what I/O means,
that just means your input, output,
things that go in and things that go out.
Non-blocking I/O just means, so if you've
ever used another language like Ruby,
or Python, or maybe even PHP, whenever
you run some type of arbitrary code,
there isn't an ability to run
another piece of code in parallel
without using more resources on
the computer like another thread, right?
JavaScript, or in this case, definitely
Node is different in a way where you can
run things in parallel on one thread.
And it does that by having
something called an event loop.
And basically, an event loop,
I have a description here, but
the best way I can describe it is when you
combine it all together with event loops,
callbacks, and things like that.
It's basically,
you can think of it as like a registry for
work that needs to be done, and
then that work gets completed on
whatever timer that is set, and
then that registry will then call
a function in your code to let
you know that that work is done.
So that way things can happen in parallel,
and
this allows Node to basically, a really
good example would be to allow Node to
handle more concurrent
requests as far as a server.
So Node.js could probably handle way
more concurrent requests per second
than another framework by default
without any optimizations.
That doesn't mean Node.js is faster,
because it's not like,
this is just a better framework for
everything, you should use it.
No, because it's actually not
good at CPU intensive things,
because it only uses one thread.
So doing things like AI or
machine learning is probably not the best
example for Node.js, because by default,
it doesn't use all the resources
on the computer intentionally.
So people choose Python for that, right?
So there's different use cases, but when
it comes to handling concurrent things,
Node.js is pretty good out of the box for
that, and
it's because of its non-blocking I/O.
Yes?
>> Is there a difference between
the event loop in JavaScript and Node?
>> No,
it's pretty much the same thing as well.
The implementation is obviously different,
because we're talking about an event loop
on a computer, and those resources versus
an event loop that's in front of a browser
that's using computer resources.
But how you would perceive it as a person
writing Node is pretty much the same
thing.
So no, there really is no difference.
It's a good question.
I wanted to put that out there,
because most operating system-level
languages aren't like this.
This Node.js is probably this runtime and
this language is probably the only
one that I know that it's
like this by default.
So it's a little different if you'd like,
I've been using Ruby my whole life and
you come here like wait, what is that?
How are you doing that?
So it's a little different and it makes
you think about how you write your code,
and we'll get to that,
but here's an example.
So here's some blocking code.
So blocking code basically
just means it's synchronous.
As in, everything happens from top to
bottom the way that you wrote it, right?
So it's just a function that takes an ID,
and it's a constant lookup.
It's quick, and we're not talking about
like how fast something is, but basically,
the next line doesn't happen until
the previous line is completed, right?
It's just standard synchronous code.
But then non-blocking code
would be basically if
I wrapped the retrieval
in a set timeout for
a second in which this callback was fired,
now this is non-blocking.
So what does that mean?
Well, that means if I had some
code after this line here,
that code would execute before
this code would, right?
Because that's happening a thousand
milliseconds later, which basically is
just telling JavaScript in this case,
hey, register this work to happen later.
So it's gonna bottom out
at this call stack, and
then it's gonna wait until
that time period has happened.
And then when our work is ready to be
completed, it'll call this function in
which triggers this function here and
then you get your result.
So this is non-blocking, whereas most
program languages, you can't do this.
So it's very important to remember that as
you see as we go through the examples and
we build our app.
Any questions on this?
Yes.
>> Could you clarify one more time
what you mean by if you know JS,
you already know 90% of Node.
>> I'm sorry, if you know JavaScript,
then you already know 90% of Node,
because Node.js is just a runtime for
JavaScript.
The language is JavaScript.
So if you've already used
JavaScript in a browser,
then it's literally no different
than the JavaScript in Node.
The only things that are different,
which we will go over in a minute,
are the things that it has access to.
So it's a little strange, because most
programming languages are languages and
runtimes at the same time,
like Python is a language.
It's also a runtime.
Ruby is a language, it's also a runtime.
So it's rare to see Ruby in a different
runtime, where it doesn't have access
to the things that normal Ruby would,
whereas JavaScript is a language.
Node.js is a runtime,
the browser is also a runtime.
So even though the language is the same,
the environments in which they run
in are two different environments.
So they have access two
completely different things,
which makes it feel like the code is
different, but it's still just JavaScript.
A function is still a function, you can do
the same things as far as the syntax and
the code goes.
But what you have access to as far as
the globals, the packages, the power,
it's going to be different, but
the language itself is the same.